<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
  <head>
    <meta charset='utf-8'>
    <meta http-equiv="X-UA-Compatible" content="chrome=1">
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=640">

    <link rel="stylesheet" href="stylesheets/core.css" media="screen">
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="stylesheets/mobile.css" media="handheld, only screen and (max-device-width:640px)">
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="stylesheets/pygment_trac.css">

    <script type="text/javascript" src="javascripts/modernizr.js"></script>
    <script type="text/javascript" src="https://ajax.googleapis.com/ajax/libs/jquery/1.7.1/jquery.min.js"></script>
    <script type="text/javascript" src="javascripts/headsmart.min.js"></script>
    <script type="text/javascript">
      $(document).ready(function () {
        $('#main_content').headsmart()
      })
    </script>
    <title>Team Eeyore Capstone Site</title>

    <style>
      .team_members {
        background-image: url("eeyore.gif");
        background-repeat: no-repeat;
        background-size: 135px 135px;
        background-position: right;
      }
    </style>
  </head>

  <body>
    <a id="forkme_banner" href="https://github.com/dhganey/mwa-capstone">View on GitHub</a>
    <div class="shell">

      <header>
        <span class="ribbon-outer">
          <span class="ribbon-inner">
            <h1>Mwa-capstone</h1>
            <h2>A github repository for our CSE485 Senior Capstone project--a web portal for the ASU MWA project. </h2>
          </span>
          <span class="left-tail"></span>
          <span class="right-tail"></span>
        </span>
      </header>

      <section id="downloads">
        <span class="inner">
          <a href="https://github.com/dhganey/mwa-capstone/zipball/master" class="zip"><em>download</em> .ZIP</a><a href="https://github.com/dhganey/mwa-capstone/tarball/master" class="tgz"><em>download</em> .TGZ</a>
        </span>
      </section>


      <span class="banner-fix"></span>


      <section id="main_content">
        <h1>
<a name="mwa-capstone" class="anchor" href="#mwa-capstone"><span class="octicon octicon-link"></span></a>mwa-capstone</h1>

<p>A github repository for our CSE485 Senior Capstone project--a web portal for the ASU MWA project. </p>

<h2>
<a name="cse-485-1030am-team-1" class="anchor" href="#cse-485-1030am-team-1"><span class="octicon octicon-link"></span></a>Team Eeyore - CSE 485 10:30AM Team 1</h2>

<ul class="team_members">
<li>Connor Alfheim</li>
<li>Ryan Dougherty</li>
<li>David Ganey</li>
<li>Dylan Lusi</li>
<li>Joseph North</li>
<li>Ben Roos</li>
</ul>

<h2>
<a name="project-summary" class="anchor" href="#project-summary"><span class="octicon octicon-link"></span></a>Project Summary</h2>

<p>Name: Advanced Observing and Analysis Tools for Next Generation Radio Arrays</p>

<p>Sponsors: Dr. Judd Bowman and Dr. Danny Jacobs, School of Earth and Space Exploration, Low-Frequency Cosmology Group, ASU</p>

<p>Description: The low-frequency cosmology group would like improvements made to their web portal. The website should allow users to view the status of the Murchison Widefield Array in Australia. We are to deliver a system that monitors data flow across the large, distributed radio telescope array and its backend data archive and provide an extensibility API for astronomers to write their own modules to use on the site.</p>

<h2>
<a name="meeting-2-summary" class="anchor" href="#meeting-2-summary"><span class="octicon octicon-link"></span></a>Meeting 21 Summary</h2>

<p>Friday, April 10th, 2015 at 12:00 pm
COOR Computer Lab
Attendees: Joseph North, Connor Alfheim, David Ganey, Ryan Dougherty</p>

<h4>
<a name="summary" class="anchor" href="#summary"><span class="octicon octicon-link"></span></a>Summary</h4>
<ul>
<li>We discussed the progress made on new features, demonstrated the features in use, and made a plan for what to work on in the coming week.</li>
</ul>

<h4>
<a name="results-and-action-items" class="anchor" href="#results-and-action-items"><span class="octicon octicon-link"></span></a>Update on Last Week's Agenda Items</h4>
<p>Custom data sources are implemented. User signup is implemented. Research and documentation are still in-progress.</p>
<h4>Information Agenda Items</h4>
<ul>
  <li>We stll need to research the pricing for various hosting options.<li>
</ul>
<h4>Actionable Agenda Items</h4>
<ul>
<li>
Flag Plot
  <ul>
  <li>Description: A plot on the main page that, when in browsing mode, shows which observations have been flagged by users and who those users are.</li>
  <li>Discussion: Flagging should be integrated with the new content for custom data sources to allow flags for custom charts to appear.</li>
  <li>Assigned: Connor</li>
  <li>Due: 4/17/2015</li>
  </ul>
</li>
<li>
Database maintenance
  <ul>
  <li>Description: Documentation and steps to migrate and modify the database in the future.</li>
  <li>Discussion: Some research has been done to ensure seamless database migrations in the future. This still needs to be written up on the wiki.</li>
  <li>Assigned: David</li>
  <li>Due: 4/17/2015</li>
  </ul>
</li>
<li>
Custom data sources
  <ul>
  <li>Description: Custom data sources are implemented now for creation of custom plots</li>
  <li>Discussion: At this point, users simply need to create a Highcharts object with the configuration options. We still need documentation on how to do that. We believe at this point this is the simplest option. We also need to extend the set construction panel to custom charts.</li>
  <li>Assigned: Joe</li>
  <li>Due: 4/17/2015</li>
  </ul>
</li>
<li>
Documentation and final report
  <ul>
  <li>Description: Create a wiki showing how to set up and work with the code produced in this project.</li>
  <li>Discussion: We'll have to identify which components of the project require documentation.</li>
  <li>Assigned: Ryan</li>
  <li>Due: 4/17/2015</li>
  </ul>
</li>
    This meeting summary was prepared by David Ganey.
</ul>

<h2>
<a name="meeting-2-summary" class="anchor" href="#meeting-2-summary"><span class="octicon octicon-link"></span></a>Meeting 20 Summary</h2>

<p>Friday, April 3rd, 2015 at 1:30 pm
ISTB4 L1-83
Attendees: Joseph North, Connor Alfheim, David Ganey, Ryan Dougherty, Dylan Lusi, Dr. Jacobs</p>

<h4>
<a name="summary" class="anchor" href="#summary"><span class="octicon octicon-link"></span></a>Summary</h4>
<ul>
<li>We demonstrated the new features on the website and received suggestions for improvements. We also discussed hosting platforms and documentation as we head towards the end of the project.</li>
</ul>

<h4>
<a name="results-and-action-items" class="anchor" href="#results-and-action-items"><span class="octicon octicon-link"></span></a>Update on Last Week's Agenda Items</h4>
<p>The QS graph has been implemented. Additionally, the tab interface for graphs on the main page has been implemented, with the new QS graph in its own tab and the existing histogram in another tab. Finally, we made numerous UI improvements.</p>
<h4>Information Agenda Items</h4>
<ul>
  <li>We plan to research the pricing for various hosting options.<li>
</ul>
<h4>Actionable Agenda Items</h4>
<ul>
<li>
Flag Plot
  <ul>
  <li>Description: A plot on the main page that, when in browsing mode, shows which observations have been flagged by users and who those users are.</li>
  <li>Discussion: Needs to be integrated into the main graph. This will allow users to get a quick, high-level overview of what data is bad.</li>
  <li>Assigned: Connor</li>
  <li>Due: 4/10/2015</li>
  </ul>
</li>
<li>
Database maintenance
  <ul>
  <li>Description: Documentation and steps to migrate and modify the database in the future.</li>
  <li>Discussion: To make the deployment of database changes as easy as possible, we should clearly document the procedure by which the database on the production site is updated.</li>
  <li>Assigned: David</li>
  <li>Due: 4/10/2015</li>
  </ul>
</li>
<li>
Custom graphs
  <ul>
  <li>Description: Users should be able to customize their own graphs by specifying what database tables/columns they want to use as a data source and what type of graph they want. They should then be able to specify which graphs they see on the main page by selecting from their custom graphs.</li>
  <li>Discussion: We will need to determine the best method for graph customization - should users be able to customize a graph through an interface on the site, or should they have to write their own code that plugs in to our API?</li>
  <li>Assigned: Joe</li>
  <li>Due: 4/10/2015</li>
  </ul>
</li>
<li>
UI updates
  <ul>
  <li>Description: Users should be able to adjust the width of the histogram bars and should be able to see sets
    on the main page, not on set view pages. Additionally, the date ranges on the main page should be cached (per tab, if possible) instead of resetting to the current date when the page loads. Set filters should be refined - we should enable filtering by user (i.e. who created the set). The set browsing list should be redesigned to contain less whitespace. Finally, the EoRLive logo on the header bar should link to the main page.</li>
  <li>Discussion: The main ideas behind these UI updates are a) users will want to see as much information on the main page as possible, and b) users will want to customize how they see their data in as many ways as possible.</li>
  <li>Assigned: Ryan and Ben</li>
  <li>Due: 4/10/2015</li>
  </ul>
</li>
<li>
User management
  <ul>
  <li>Description: We need to enable user account creation through an interface on the site. Additionally, we should include a page that allows users to view a users page that shows each individual and the sets they've created. Admins can delete users through this page.</li>
  <li>Discussion: We'll need a way to verify that a user is allowed to register.</li>
  <li>Assigned: David and Connor</li>
  <li>Due: 4/10/2015</li>
  </ul>
</li>
<li>
API Documentation
  <ul>
  <li>Description: Create a document showing how to set up and work with the code produced in this project.</li>
  <li>Discussion: Others will continue to work on this project after we graduate, so we need to provide ample documentation explaining the structure of the project, how to install it, etc. Most importantly, the scientists using this site will want to add their own functionality, so the APIs we create need to be well-documented for their sake.</li>
  <li>Assigned: Ryan</li>
  <li>Due: 4/10/2015</li>
  </ul>
</li>
    This meeting summary was prepared by David Ganey.
</ul>

<h2>
<a name="meeting-2-summary" class="anchor" href="#meeting-2-summary"><span class="octicon octicon-link"></span></a>Meeting 19 Summary</h2>

<p>Friday, March 27th, 2015 at 12:00 pm
Coor Computer Lab
Attendees: Joseph North, Connor Alfheim, David Ganey, Ryan Dougherty, Dylan Lusi, Ben Roos</p>

<h4>
<a name="summary" class="anchor" href="#summary"><span class="octicon octicon-link"></span></a>Summary</h4>
<ul>
<li>We discussed the progress made since last week. A number of us encountered roadblocks over the week, so we worked to resolve them. Then we identified a plan to approach our pending action items and prioritized them. We also discussed options for hosting our project long-term since it has outgrown Heroku's free tier. Finally, we pushed the changes we made over the last week to the live site and emailed our project sponsor asking for feedback.</li>
</ul>

<h4>
<a name="results-and-action-items" class="anchor" href="#results-and-action-items"><span class="octicon octicon-link"></span></a>Update on Last Week's Agenda Items</h4>
<p>The NGAS link has been added to the set view page. Additionally, the data summary table now includes observation hours. Other deliverables are still in progress.</p>
<h4>Information Agenda Items</h4>
<ul>
	<li>We explored the QS (quality statistics) table that Dr. Jacobs recommended we take a look at for new data to plot.</li>
	<li>Research external image hosting services in case we decide to pursue the image generation route for our sparklines.</li>
</ul>
<h4>Actionable Agenda Items</h4>
<ul>
<li>
Flag Plot
  <ul>
  <li>Description: A plot on the main page that, when in browsing mode, shows which observations have been flagged by users and who those users are.</li>
  <li>Discussion: Needs to be integrated into the main graph. This will allow users to get a quick, high-level overview of what data is bad.</li>
  <li>Assigned: Connor</li>
  <li>Due: 4/3/2015</li>
  </ul>
</li>
<li>
New plots
    <ul>
    <li>Description: Add a tabbed view to the main page where each tab is a different data graph (currently there is just one graph). Specifically, we will graph the QS (quality statistics) data in a new graph and any other interesting data we find in other graphs.
    <li>Discussion: Using a database table (such as the QS table) as the basis for each tab, and each column in the table as a data set, we should be able to design a flexible graphing function that can be used in the future.</li>
    <li>Assigned: David, Dylan, Joe</li>
    <li>Due: 4/3/2015</li>
    </ul>
</li>
<li>
UI updates
    <ul>
    <li>Description: Add some new UI elements to the set list</li>
    <li>Discussion: We should adjust the main page to work on small pages. The width/height percentages do not appear to be obeyed by the full page. Additionally, the "Reply" button is too low and the chart in the right sidebar occasionally renders outside the right side of the page.</li>
    <li>Assigned: Ben</li>
    <li>Due: 4/3/2015</li>
    </ul>
</li>
<li>
Sparklines on set browser
  <ul>
    <li>Description: Add sparklines to the list of data sets</li>
    <li>Discussion: Highcharts provides the ability to download graphs as image files. Rather than dynamically generate a sparkline for each set when loading the page, we may want to consider generating one as an image file when the set is created. We will need to investigate potential image hosting solutions if we choose to pursue this route.</li>
    <li>Assigned: Connor</li>
    <li>Due: 4/3/2015</li>
  </ul>
</li>
<li>
API Documentation
    <ul>
    <li>Description: Create a document showing how to set up and work with the code produced in this project</li>
    <li>Discussion: Others will continue to work on this project after we graduate, so we need to provide ample documentation explaining the structure of the project, how to install it, etc. Most importantly, the scientists using this site will want to add their own functionality, so the APIs we create need to be well-documented for their sake.</li>
    <li>Assigned: Ryan</li>
    <li>Due: 4/3/2015</li>
    </ul>
</li>
    This meeting summary was prepared by David Ganey.
</ul>

<h2>
<a name="meeting-2-summary" class="anchor" href="#meeting-2-summary"><span class="octicon octicon-link"></span></a>Meeting 18 Summary</h2>

<p>Friday, March 20th, 2015 at 2:00 pm
ISTB4 L1-83
Attendees: Joseph North, Connor Alfheim, David Ganey, Ryan Dougherty, Dylan Lusi, Ben Roos, Dr. Jacobs</p>

<h4>
<a name="summary" class="anchor" href="#summary"><span class="octicon octicon-link"></span></a>Summary</h4>
<ul>
<li>This week, we showcased some new features and got information about future features desired by the sponsors. We also worked out a rough timeline for the rest of the semester.</li>
</ul>

<h4>
<a name="results-and-action-items" class="anchor" href="#results-and-action-items"><span class="octicon octicon-link"></span></a>Update on Last Week's Agenda Items</h4>
<p>Set downloading and comments are complete. The flag graph is still in progress.</p>
<h4>Information Agenda Items</h4>
<p>Research various columns in the new database to plot. Also look into interesting plot types that users might want to use.</p>
<h4>Actionable Agenda Items</h4>
<ul>
<li>
Flag Plot
  <ul>
  <li>Description: A plot on the main page that, when in browsing mode, shows which observations have been flagged by users and who those users are.</li>
  <li>Discussion: Needs to be integrated into the main graph. This will allow users to get a quick, high-level overview of what data is bad.</li>
  <li>Assigned: Connor and Ryan</li>
  <li>Due: 3/27/2015</li>
  </ul>
</li>
<li>
Data Investigation
    <ul>
    <li>Description: Browse through the new database and try integrating interesting data sets into the histogram with different graph types to get a feel for how a user might want to use the site.</li>
    <li>Discussion: Exploring the database ourselves and seeing what types of data are available will help us understand what graph types are most meaningful. This investigation task will also help us to figure out how to make our chart configuration API as flexible and extensible as possible, which is extremely important since it is one of the primary goals of our project.</li>
    <li>Assigned: Everyone</li>
    <li>Due: 3/27/2015</li>
    </ul>
</li>
<li>
New plots
    <ul>
    <li>Description: Add a tabbed view to the current plot and show new plots. Show hours of observation data in the chart and QS data in the plot.</li>
    <li>Discussion: The idea is that each tab in the view will correspond to a table in the database. Each tab contains a plot, and the different data series (with corresponding legend entries) in the plot correspond to the columns of that database table. In each of these plots (as with our existing plots), the user can select which data sets they want to see or hide by clicking on their legend entries. This data-focused plot creation mechanism will allow the user to explore the data in ways that are meaningful to them.</li>
    <li>Assigned: David, Dylan, Joe</li>
    <li>Due: 3/27/2015</li>
    </ul>
</li>
<li>
UI updates
    <ul>
    <li>Description: Add some new UI elements to the set list (e.g. sparklines)</li>
    <li>Discussion: On the primary page, there is a list of data sets that the user can browse. However, the only information presented is the set name and the username of the user who created the set. This isn't very meaningful to a user browsing through the sets. Our goal is to add enough information so that a user can get an idea of what the set is about without having to visit its page. We will investigate adding a sparkline to each set in the list so the user can have a better idea of what's in the set. We will also add some data labels for each set in the list (e.g. how many hours of data are in the set).</li>
    <li>Assigned: Ben</li>
    <li>Due: 3/27/2015</li>
    </ul>
</li>
<li>
NGAS link
    <ul>
    <li>Description: Research integrating with the NGAS site via links from sets</li>
    <li>Discussion: There is an existing site that contains information about the files generated from the telescope's observations. Users of the site will be interested in seeing this file data in the context of the observation data sets they create. Therefore, we will look into creating a link on each observation data set page that opens up the corresponding file data page on the existing site in a new browser tab.</li>
    <li>Assigned: Joe</li>
    <li>Due: 3/27/2015</li>
    </ul>
</li>
<li>
API Documentation
    <ul>
    <li>Description: Create a document showing how to set up and work with the code produced in this project</li>
    <li>Discussion: Others will continue to work on this project after we graduate, so we need to provide ample documentation explaining the structure of the project, how to install it, etc. Most importantly, the scientists using this site will want to add their own functionality, so the APIs we create need to be well-documented for their sake.</li>
    <li>Assigned: Ryan</li>
    <li>Due: 3/27/2015</li>
    </ul>
</li>
    This meeting summary was prepared by David Ganey.
</ul>


<h2>
<a name="meeting-2-summary" class="anchor" href="#meeting-2-summary"><span class="octicon octicon-link"></span></a>Meeting 17 Summary</h2>

<p>Friday, March 6th, 2015 at 2:00 pm
Brickyard
Attendees: Joseph North, Connor Alfheim, David Ganey, Ryan Dougherty, Dylan Lusi, Ben Roos</p>

<h4>
<a name="summary" class="anchor" href="#summary"><span class="octicon octicon-link"></span></a>Summary</h4>
<ul>
<li>This week, we revisited the top features we discussed at the demo last week and investigated possible uses for the data in the database we gained access to.</li>
</ul>

<h4>
<a name="results-and-action-items" class="anchor" href="#results-and-action-items"><span class="octicon octicon-link"></span></a>Update on Last Week's Agenda Items</h4>
<p>Set importing and exporting via text files are complete and are available on the live site. The flag plot is still nearly complete, and we've been having discussions about how to refactor the commenting system. OAuth has been put aside for now, and work has yet to be done on the set view page.</p>
<h4>Information Agenda Items</h4>
<p>Find out how users will want to modify the main set graph we have now (e.g. what types of data and what graph types).</p>
<h4>Actionable Agenda Items</h4>
<ul>
<li>
Flag Plot
  <ul>
  <li>Description: A plot on the main page that, when in browsing mode, shows which observations have been flagged by users and who those users are.</li>
  <li>Discussion: Needs to be integrated into the main graph.</li>
  <li>Assigned: Connor and Ryan</li>
  <li>Due: 3/18/2015</li>
  </ul>
</li>
<li>
Set View Page
    <ul>
    <li>Description: Show the set's histogram (the data in the range it specified and what observations were flagged) on the set view page.</li>
    <li>Discussion: The set view page exists, but no histogram is present. The histogram should appear as it does on the data browsing page right before a set is saved.</li>
    <li>Assigned: Ben and Dylan</li>
    <li>Due: 3/18/2015</li>
    </ul>
</li>
<li>
Commenting
    <ul>
    <li>Description: Reorganize comments into threads and move them to the main page.</li>
    <li>Discussion: Investigate how to implement "smart" set linking in comments (i.e. make it easy to insert a link to one of your data sets into a comment).</li>
    <li>Assigned: David and Joe</li>
    <li>Due: 3/18/2015</li>
    </ul>
</li>
<li>
Data Investigation
    <ul>
    <li>Description: Browse through the new database and try integrating interesting data sets into the histogram with different graph types to get a feel for how a user might want to use the site.</li>
    <li>Assigned: Everyone</li>
    <li>Due: 3/18/2015</li>
    </ul>
</li>
    This meeting summary was prepared by Joseph North.
</ul>

<h2>
<a name="meeting-2-summary" class="anchor" href="#meeting-2-summary"><span class="octicon octicon-link"></span></a>Meeting 16 Summary</h2>

<p>Friday, February 27th, 2015 at 2:00 pm
ISTB4
Attendees: Joseph North, Connor Alfheim, David Ganey, Ryan Dougherty, Dylan Lusi, Ben Roos, Dr. Bowman, Dr. Jacobs, Nicole Ang</p>

<h4>
<a name="summary" class="anchor" href="#summary"><span class="octicon octicon-link"></span></a>Summary</h4>
<ul>
<li>This week, we had a demo for Dr. Jacobs and Dr. Bowman showing the new features. New features and updates to the timeline were proposed.</li>
</ul>

<h4>
<a name="results-and-action-items" class="anchor" href="#results-and-action-items"><span class="octicon octicon-link"></span></a>Update on Last Week's Agenda Items</h4>
<p>Significant progress was made on the new features since last week. Nearly all of the features proposed for this demo are done.</p>
<h4>Information Agenda Items</h4>
<p>We got information from Dr. Jacobs about connecting to the EOR-00 QC database.</p>
<h4>Actionable Agenda Items</h4>
<ul>
<li>
Flag Plot
  <ul>
  <li>Description: A plot on the main page showing the number of flags for data.</li>
  <li>Discussion: The backend work on this is complete; only some frontend changes remain</li>
  <li>Assigned: Connor</li>
  <li>Due: 3/6/2015</li>
  </ul>
</li>
<li>
Set View Page
    <ul>
    <li>Description: Show a histogram specific to the set on the set view page</li>
    <li>Discussion: The set view page renders currently, but no histogram is present. The histogram should appear as it does on the data browsing page right before a set is saved.</li>
    <li>Assigned: Ben and Dylan</li>
    <li>Due: 3/6/2015</li>
    </ul>
</li>
<li>
Commenting
    <ul>
    <li>Description: Reorganize comments into threads and move them to the main page</li>
    <li>Discussion: Some investigation needs to be done to rethink the comment schema to accommodate grouping in threads. Additional research will be needed to find a way to recognize set names in comments.</li>
    <li>Assigned: David</li>
    <li>Due: 3/6/2015</li>
    </ul>
</li>
<li>
Import/Export
    <ul>
    <li>Description: Allow users to create sets by uploading text files of observation IDs, and allow export of sets to that type of file.</li>
    <li>Discussion: This can be done by sorting the list and linearly creating plot bands to create a set.</li>
    <li>Assigned: Joe</li>
    <li>Due: 3/6/2015</li>
    </ul>
</li>
<li>
OAuth
    <ul>
    <li>Description: Allow users to sign into the site with Google authentication</li>
    <li>Discussion: Priority of this feature has been lowered after this meeting. No due date has been specified.</li>
    <li>Assigned: Ryan</li>
    <li>Due: March 2015/</li>
    </ul>
</li>
    This meeting summary was prepared by David Ganey
</ul>

<h2>
<a name="meeting-2-summary" class="anchor" href="#meeting-2-summary"><span class="octicon octicon-link"></span></a>Meeting 15 Summary</h2>

<p>Friday, February 20th, 2015 at 1:30 pm
Brickyard
Attendees: Joseph North, Connor Alfheim, David Ganey, Ryan Dougherty, Dylan Lusi, Ben Roos.</p>

<h4>
<a name="summary" class="anchor" href="#summary"><span class="octicon octicon-link"></span></a>Summary</h4>
<ul>
<li>Extensive discussion on new features discussed Monday</li>
</ul>

<h4>
<a name="results-and-action-items" class="anchor" href="#results-and-action-items"><span class="octicon octicon-link"></span></a>Update on Last Week's Agenda Items</h4>
<p>We discussed the new requirements proposed for the demonstration next Friday.</p>
<h4>Information Agenda Items</h4>
<p>Extensive work must be done on the application to prepare for the demonstration. Some additional clarification from the Sponsors is needed and will be requested via email.</p>
<h4>Actionable Agenda Items</h4>
<ul>
<li>
Set Schema
  <ul>
  <li>Description: The "set" allows users to save sets containing flagged data</li>
  <li>Discussion: We discussed the database tables necessary for the sets to work. We determined three tables needed to store and process the sets. At the next meeting, we should discuss how to create sets from other sets.</li>
  <li>Joe has already begun work on the set backend and will continue to work on how to save sets. David will work with Joe to integrate comments with sets. Connor will work on implementing the flag graph in data browsing mode. Ben and Dylan will investigate the set view page.</li>
  </ul>
</li>
<li>
Commenting
    <ul>
    <li>Description: Allow users to comment on sets</li>
    <li>Discussion: We discussed how to revise commenting functionality to work with sets. We need a way to query within a date range for all sets contained within that range, and a way to show the number of comments made since the user last viewed a set. This list should be sortable and the current comment functionality will be moved to the set page.</li>
    <li>David will work with Joe's set stuff to implement commenting.</li>
    </ul>
</li>
<li>
OAuth Login
    <ul>
    <li>Description: Allow users to sign into the site with Google authentication</li>
    <li>Discussion: Users should be able to register for an account on the website</li>
    <li>Ryan will implement this functionality</li>
    </ul>
</li>
    This meeting summary was prepared by David Ganey
</ul>

<h2>
<a name="meeting-2-summary" class="anchor" href="#meeting-2-summary"><span class="octicon octicon-link"></span></a>Meeting 14 Summary</h2>

<p>Wednesday, February 13th, 2015 at 1:30 pm
ISTB4
Attendees: Joseph North, Connor Alfheim, David Ganey, Ryan Dougherty, Dylan Lusi. Ben Roos had a meeting with his thesis director and was unable to attend.</p>

<h4>
<a name="summary" class="anchor" href="#summary"><span class="octicon octicon-link"></span></a>Summary</h4>
<ul>
<li>Reviewed progress so since last week and demonstrated new features</li>
<li>Discussed set schema and current assignments</li>
</ul>

<h4>
<a name="results-and-action-items" class="anchor" href="#results-and-action-items"><span class="octicon octicon-link"></span></a>Update on Last Week's Agenda Items</h4>
<p>This week, Joe demonstrated some updates to the high charts and everyone gave status updates</p>
<h4>Information Agenda Items</h4>
<p>We still need to work out the use-cases to help with expanding the comments functionality, and some more information on set schema still needs to be finalized</p>
<h4>Actionable Agenda Items</h4>
<ul>
<li>
Set Schema
  <ul>
  <li>Description: Provide a more flexible set type (rather than just a range)</li>
  <li>Discussion: We discussed a "set construction" mode which will allow users to make modifications (e.g. removing observations) to a data set.</li>
  <li>Joe and David have discussed the set schema and will begin implementation. Client-side development will start first, and with approval of the sponsor the changes will be made in the backend as well.</li>
  </ul>
</li>
<li>
Commenting
    <ul>
    <li>Description: Allow users to comment on sets</li>
    <li>Discussion: Basic comments are functional and have been moved to the left. Comments will need to be reworked for the new set type.</li>
    <li>David will work on comments, with integrations from Connor (see below)</li>
    </ul>
</li>
<li>
File integration
    <ul>
    <li>Description: Dropbox image integration</li>
    <li>Discussion: Connor has begun researching image uploads to Dropbox in the comments section.</li>
    <li>Connor will implement the Dropbox uploads</li>
    </ul>
</li>
    This meeting summary was prepared by David Ganey
</ul>

<h2>
<a name="meeting-2-summary" class="anchor" href="#meeting-2-summary"><span class="octicon octicon-link"></span></a>Meeting 13 Summary</h2>

<p>Wednesday, February 6th, 2015 at 3:30pm
ISTB4
Attendees: Joseph North, Connor Alfheim, David Ganey, Ben Roos, Ryan Dougherty, Dylan Lusi, Dr. Jacobs (Skype)</p>

<h4>
<a name="summary" class="anchor" href="#summary"><span class="octicon octicon-link"></span></a>Summary</h4>
<ul>
<li>Reviewed progress so since last week and demonstrated new features</li>
<li>Discussed set schema and current assignments</li>
</ul>

<h4>
<a name="results-and-action-items" class="anchor" href="#results-and-action-items"><span class="octicon octicon-link"></span></a>Update on Last Week's Agenda Items</h4>
<p>This week, we discussed the progress made on implementing comments and updates to the error histograms</p>
<h4>Information Agenda Items</h4>
<p>We discussed the need to solidify a solid set schema in order to make progress on other areas</p>
<h4>Actionable Agenda Items</h4>
<ul>
<li>
Set Schema
  <ul>
  <li>Description: Generate a schema to store more configurable data sets, rather than just data ranges</li>
  <li>Discussion: </li>
  <li>The entire team will contribute to solidifying the data schema</li>
  </ul>
</li>
<li>
Commenting Board Functionality
    <ul>
    <li>Description: Allow users to comment on ranges</li>
    <li>Discussion: Basic commenting functionality has been implemented but not fully deployed to the production app. Future commenting integration will be dependent on functional data sets.</li>
    <li>David will investigate adapting these to be set-dependent</li>
    </ul>
</li>
<li>
File integration
    <ul>
    <li>Description: The sponsors would like to see file integration and Dropbox</li>
    <li>Discussion: We'll need a way to hook our application into the Dropbox public API</li>
    <li>Connor will investigate file integration</li>
    </ul>
</li>
    This meeting summary was prepared by David Ganey
</ul>

<h2>
<a name="meeting-2-summary" class="anchor" href="#meeting-2-summary"><span class="octicon octicon-link"></span></a>Meeting 12 Summary</h2>

<p>Wednesday, January 28th, 2015 at 3:00pm
Brickyard
Attendees: Joseph North, Connor Alfheim, David Ganey, Ben Roos, Ryan Dougherty</p>

<h4>
<a name="summary" class="anchor" href="#summary"><span class="octicon octicon-link"></span></a>Summary</h4>
<ul>
<li>Reviewed progress so far and discussed build issues</li>
<li>Discussed schema and current assignments</li>
</ul>

<h4>
<a name="results-and-action-items" class="anchor" href="#results-and-action-items"><span class="octicon octicon-link"></span></a>Update on Last Week's Agenda Items</h4>
<p>This week, we discussed the progress made on implementing new features and the various blockers which were impeding progress.</p>
<h4>Information Agenda Items</h4>
<p>We discussed updates to the readme to assist the team in setting up their build environments</p>
<h4>Actionable Agenda Items</h4>
Agenda items are similar to last week -- development for these new features is ongoing.
<ul>
<li>
Commenting/Discussion Board Functionality
    <ul>
    <li>Description: Allow users to comment on ranges</li>
    <li>Discussion: A basic schema has been developed but not tested. This feature is nearly finished but some errors are preventing it from being properly tested.</li>
    <li>David is currently debugging his implementations</li>
    </ul>
</li>
<li>
Additional Charts
    <ul>
    <li>Description: Add additional charts</li>
    <li>Discussion: Joe has already made progress with an error chart, as well as revisions to the data-processing scripts</li>
    <li>Joeseph and Connor will look into additional charts</li>
    </ul>
</li>
<li>
Chart interactivity features
    <ul>
    <li>Description: Charts should feature interactive, movable elements</li>
    <li>Discussion: For now, we'll focus on range-restricting sliders. In the future, additional interactive elements may be added.</li>
    <li>Ben and Dylan will investigate the interactivity features</li>
    </ul>
</li>
    This meeting summary was prepared by David Ganey
</ul>

<h2>
<a name="meeting-2-summary" class="anchor" href="#meeting-2-summary"><span class="octicon octicon-link"></span></a>Meeting 11 Summary</h2>

<p>Friday, January 23th, 2015 at 1:30pm
Brickyard
Attendees: Joseph North, Connor Alfheim, David Ganey, Ben Roos, Ryan Dougherty (Dr. Jacobs over Skype)</p>

<h4>
<a name="summary" class="anchor" href="#summary"><span class="octicon octicon-link"></span></a>Summary</h4>
<ul>
<li>Reviewed the major features we've implemented so far this semester</li>
<li>Revised our plan for next semester based on this semester's progress</li>
</ul>

<h4>
<a name="results-and-action-items" class="anchor" href="#results-and-action-items"><span class="octicon octicon-link"></span></a>Update on Last Week's Agenda Items</h4>
<p>This week, we demonstrated for Dr. Jacobs the current state of the deployed web app. This includes the features from last semester as well as the ability to save date ranges.</p>
<h4>Information Agenda Items</h4>
<p>This week, Dr. Jacobs encouraged us to research various plotting libraries, as well as the IBM Watson API for information analysis.</p>
<h4>Actionable Agenda Items</h4>
<ul>
<li>
Commenting/Discussion Board Functionality
    <ul>
    <li>Description: Devise a data schema and functionality for users to make comments on date ranges</li>
    <li>Discussion: First, we need to determine the data schema and whether this requires a custom solution or a pre-build discussion board package.</li>
    <li>David and Ryan will focus on this functionality, with assistance from Connor. The goal is to have comments working on the site by next Friday</li>
    </ul>
</li>
<li>
Additional Charts
    <ul>
    <li>Description: Add additional charts</li>
    <li>Discussion: Charts should show errors and sources over time</li>
    <li>Joeseph and Connor will look into additional charts</li>
    </ul>
</li>
<li>
Chart interactivity features
    <ul>
    <li>Description: Charts should feature interactive, movable elements</li>
    <li>Discussion: For now, we'll focus on range-restricting sliders. In the future, additional interactive elements may be added.</li>
    <li>Ben and Dylan will investigate the interactivity features</li>
    </ul>
</li>
    This meeting summary was prepared by David Ganey
</ul>
          
<h2>
<a name="meeting-2-summary" class="anchor" href="#meeting-2-summary"><span class="octicon octicon-link"></span></a>Meeting 10 Summary</h2>

<p>Friday, December 5th, 2014 at 1pm
Brickyard
Attendees: Joseph North, Connor Alfheim, David Ganey, Ben Roos, Ryan Dougherty (Dr. Jacobs was busy with another engagement and couldn't attend)</p>

<h4>
<a name="summary" class="anchor" href="#summary"><span class="octicon octicon-link"></span></a>Summary</h4>
<ul>
<li>Reviewed the major features we've implemented so far this semester</li>
<li>Revised our plan for next semester based on this semester's progress</li>
</ul>

<h4>
<a name="results-and-action-items" class="anchor" href="#results-and-action-items"><span class="octicon octicon-link"></span></a>Results and Action Items</h4>
<ul>
<li>Email our project sponsors with an update on our progress since the last time we met</li>
<li>Continue to implement the features we've been working on</li>
<li>Begin work on the features we haven't started yet</li>
</ul>

<h2>
<a name="meeting-2-summary" class="anchor" href="#meeting-2-summary"><span class="octicon octicon-link"></span></a>Meeting 9 Summary</h2>

<p>Friday, November 21st, 2014 at 1pm
ISTB4 692
Attendees: Joseph North, Connor Alfheim, David Ganey, Ben Roos, Ryan Dougherty, Dylan Lusi, Dr. Danny Jacobs</p>

<h4>
<a name="summary" class="anchor" href="#summary"><span class="octicon octicon-link"></span></a>Summary</h4>
<ul>
<li>Demonstrated our prototype to Dr. Jacobs</li>
<li>Determined what can be improved and features we want to implement next</li>
</ul>

<h4>
<a name="results-and-action-items" class="anchor" href="#results-and-action-items"><span class="octicon octicon-link"></span></a>Results and Action Items</h4>
<ul>
<li>Implement a discussion board feature based on observation ranges</li>
<li>Add range selection controls to the graphs on the main page</li>
<li>Allow users to save date ranges to their account so they can access them quickly and share them with other users</li>
</ul>

<h2>
<a name="meeting-2-summary" class="anchor" href="#meeting-2-summary"><span class="octicon octicon-link"></span></a>Meeting 8 Summary</h2>

<p>Friday, November 14th, 2014 at 1pm
Brickyard
Attendees: Joseph North, Connor Alfheim, Ben Roos, Ryan Dougherty, Dylan Lusi (David was out of town and could not attend)</p>

<h4>
<a name="summary" class="anchor" href="#summary"><span class="octicon octicon-link"></span></a>Summary</h4>
<ul>
<li>Discussed which parts of the team presentation each of us wanted to be responsible for</li>
<li>Discussed the feedback we received from our project sponsors about the prototype requirements document we came up with after our last meeting</li>
<li>Reviewed the prototype's architecture and discussed some of the implementation details</li>
</ul>

<h4>
<a name="results-and-action-items" class="anchor" href="#results-and-action-items"><span class="octicon octicon-link"></span></a>Results and Action Items</h4>
<ul>
<li>Begin tracking our project's tasks on GitHub so we always know what needs to be worked on</li>
<li>Implement more features for the prototype</li>
<li>Fill out the slides for each of our sections for the team presentation</li>
</ul>

<h2>
<a name="meeting-2-summary" class="anchor" href="#meeting-2-summary"><span class="octicon octicon-link"></span></a>Meeting 7 Summary</h2>

<p>Friday, November 7th, 2014 at 1pm
ISTB4 692
Attendees: Joseph North, Connor Alfheim, David Ganey, Ben Roos, Ryan Dougherty, Dylan Lusi, Dr. Danny Jacobs</p>

<h4>
<a name="summary" class="anchor" href="#summary"><span class="octicon octicon-link"></span></a>Summary</h4>
<ul>
<li>Refined our milestones into more concrete and approachable action items</li>
<li>Laid out the architecture of our system and broke it down into manageable components</li>
<li>Discussed building a small prototype of the system so we can get a feel for the most important components of the project</li>
</ul>

<h4>
<a name="results-and-action-items" class="anchor" href="#results-and-action-items"><span class="octicon octicon-link"></span></a>Results and Action Items</h4>
<ul>
<li>Develop a system prototype that will involve some of the major components the final product will require, but on a smaller and more focused scale. We will present this prototype to our project sponsors in two weeks.</li>
<li>Came up with a list of the major components of the project so that every time we meet with our sponsors, we can go through it and give them an update on each item's progress</li>
</ul>

<h2>
<a name="meeting-2-summary" class="anchor" href="#meeting-2-summary"><span class="octicon octicon-link"></span></a>Meeting 6 Summary</h2>

<p>Friday, October 31st, 2014 at 1pm
Brickyard
Attendees: Joseph North, Connor Alfheim, David Ganey, Ben Roos, Ryan Dougherty, Dylan Lusi</p>

<h4>
<a name="summary" class="anchor" href="#summary"><span class="octicon octicon-link"></span></a>Summary</h4>

<ul>
<li>Improved our user stories for our project initialization document</li>
<li>Tried to set up the Vagrant machine provided to us by our project sponsors on our computers</li>
<li>Ran into a number of issues setting it up and tried to figure out what the source of the problem was (missing files)</li>
<li>Discussed our roadmap for what to do once we get the Vagrant machine running</li>
</ul>

<h4>
<a name="results-and-action-items" class="anchor" href="#results-and-action-items"><span class="octicon octicon-link"></span></a>Results and Action Items</h4>

<ul>
<li>Email our project sponsors about the issues we had with Vagrant</li>
<li>Obtain the files we were missing and get the Vagrant machine up</li>
<li>Once we get the Vagrant machine up, start looking into the database details</li>
</ul>

<h2>
<a name="meeting-2-summary" class="anchor" href="#meeting-2-summary"><span class="octicon octicon-link"></span></a>Meeting 5 Summary</h2>

<p>Friday, October 24th, 2014 at 1pm
ISTB4 692
Attendees: The database subteam (Joseph North and Connor Alfheim), Dr. Danny Jacobs</p>

<h4>
<a name="summary" class="anchor" href="#summary"><span class="octicon octicon-link"></span></a>Summary</h4>

<ul>
<li>The database subteam got an overview of the backend portion of the project</li>
<li>Dr. Jacobs went over the database schema of the project and pointed out the tables that would be most relevant to our work</li>
<li>We found out that the team maintaining the database we would be working with released a Web API to access data from it. We discussed whether we would be able to accomplish what we need to through the API or if we would need to make direct queries</li>
<li>We looked at the current version of the site and Dr. Jacobs pointed out some of the important modules and where their data were coming from</li>
<li>Dr. Jacobs gave us some suggestions for how to set up a team development environment</li>
<li>We received a copy of the source code for the current version of the site</li>
</ul>

<h4>
<a name="results-and-action-items" class="anchor" href="#results-and-action-items"><span class="octicon octicon-link"></span></a>Results and Action Items</h4>

<ul>
<li>Look into Vagrant as an option for setting up a common development environment</li>
<li>Start looking through the site's source code so we can get an idea of how the site works</li>
<li>The database subteam will talk to the rest of the team about what they learned at the meeting, and the full team will come up with questions to ask at the next meeting</li>
</ul>

<h2>
<a name="meeting-2-summary" class="anchor" href="#meeting-2-summary"><span class="octicon octicon-link"></span></a>Meeting 4 Summary</h2>

<p>Friday, October 17th, 2014 at 1pm
Brickyard
Attendees: Joseph North, Connor Alfheim, Ben Roos, David Ganey, Ryan Dougherty, Dylan Lusi (our project's sponsors were traveling and could not attend our meeting)</p>

<h4>
<a name="summary" class="anchor" href="#summary"><span class="octicon octicon-link"></span></a>Summary</h4>

<ul>
<li>Continued our discussion of how the team would be split among the subteams</li>
<li>Discussed how we would set up an EC2 instance such that we could all access it easily</li>
<li>Considered different types of EC2 instances and which would best suit our needs</li>
<li>Went through a pull request for our initialization document branch on our GitHub repository to familiarize ourselves with the process</li>
</ul>

<h4>
<a name="results-and-action-items" class="anchor" href="#results-and-action-items"><span class="octicon octicon-link"></span></a>Results and Action Items</h4>

<ul>
<li>Subteams have been finalized</li>
<li>Determine a list of topics the database team will discuss with our project sponsors when they return</li>
</ul>

<h2>
<a name="meeting-2-summary" class="anchor" href="#meeting-2-summary"><span class="octicon octicon-link"></span></a>Meeting 3 Summary</h2>

<p>Friday, October 10th, 2014 at 1pm
Brickyard
Attendees: Joseph North, Connor Alfheim, Ben Roos, David Ganey, Ryan Dougherty, Dylan Lusi (our project's sponsors were traveling and could not attend our meeting)</p>

<h4>
<a name="summary" class="anchor" href="#summary"><span class="octicon octicon-link"></span></a>Summary</h4>

<ul>
<li>Reviewed and discussed our project initialization document and made some final revisions</li>
<li>Discussed the issue of subteams and which ones each of us were most interested in</li>
<li>Looked at different options for organizing our team workflow when we start coding</li>
<li>Brainstormed team names</li>
</ul>

<h4>
<a name="results-and-action-items" class="anchor" href="#results-and-action-items"><span class="octicon octicon-link"></span></a>Results and Action Items</h4>

<ul>
<li>Finalized our project initialization document</li>
<li>Came up with a team name and mascot</li>
<li>We will use a feature branch workflow on Git for our code and will use Trello to manage our project</li>
<li>Need to finalize who will be on our database team so we can get started when our sponsors return</li>
</ul>

<h2>
<a name="meeting-2-summary" class="anchor" href="#meeting-2-summary"><span class="octicon octicon-link"></span></a>Meeting 2 Summary</h2>

<p>Friday, September 26th, 2014 at 1pm
ISTB4 692
Attendees: Joseph North, Connor Alfheim, Ben Roos, David Ganey, Ryan Dougherty, Dylan Lusi, Dr. Judd Bowman, Dr. Danny Jacobs</p>

<h4>
<a name="summary" class="anchor" href="#summary"><span class="octicon octicon-link"></span></a>Summary</h4>

<ul>
<li>Project sponsors discussed more detail regarding use-cases and user stories</li>
<li>Specifically, we determined what features are 'must-haves' and identified some 'nice-to-haves'</li>
<li>Also discussed specific implementation details (e.g. source code hosting, EC2 instances) and came up with a list of resources we'll need access to</li>
<li>We discussed splitting up the team into multiple subteams to focus on different parts of the project</li>
</ul>

<h4>
<a name="results-and-action-items" class="anchor" href="#results-and-action-items"><span class="octicon octicon-link"></span></a>Results and Action Items</h4>

<ul>
<li>We will write up a requirements document in our own words to confirm we fully understand the sponsors' goals</li>
<li>The sponsors will approve this when ready and work on the project can begin at that point</li>
<li>Once we get access to the database, we'll need to clone a portion of it so we can get a better understanding of the types of data we'll be working with</li>
</ul>

<h2>
<a name="meeting-1-summary" class="anchor" href="#meeting-1-summary"><span class="octicon octicon-link"></span></a>Meeting 1 Summary</h2>

<p>Friday, September 19, 2014 at 1pm
ISTB4 692
Attendees: Joseph North, Connor Alfheim, Ben Roos, David Ganey, Ryan Dougherty, Dylan Lusi, Dr. Judd Bowman, Dr. Danny Jacobs</p>

<h4>
<a name="summary-1" class="anchor" href="#summary-1"><span class="octicon octicon-link"></span></a>Summary</h4>

<ul>
<li>We were given a high-level overview of the research that Dr. Jacobs and Dr. Bowman are performing, and what needs this project fills with regard to it.</li>
<li>We went over the basics of the project's physical (i.e., hardware) infrastructure, involving telescope arrays and multiple data centers in different parts of the world.</li>
<li>Dr. Jacobs showed us the first two iterations of the project's Web site and pointed out what things he liked and didn't like about each, then led us through a mockup he made of what he'd like to see in the future.</li>
<li>We determined that user stories would be helpful for figuring out the initial requirements and planned to make a template that we could work through with them to flesh out the basic workflow of the site.</li>
</ul>

<h4>
<a name="results-and-action-items-1" class="anchor" href="#results-and-action-items-1"><span class="octicon octicon-link"></span></a>Results and Action Items</h4>

<ul>
<li>We decided to have regular meetings at the same time and place on a weekly basis.</li>
<li>We are to come up with a user story template that we can use at our next meeting to determine the project requirements.</li>
</ul>
      </section>

      <footer>
        <span class="ribbon-outer">
          <span class="ribbon-inner">
            <p>this project by <a href="https://github.com/dhganey">dhganey</a> can be found on <a href="https://github.com/dhganey/mwa-capstone">GitHub</a></p>
          </span>
          <span class="left-tail"></span>
          <span class="right-tail"></span>
        </span>
        <p>Generated with <a href="http://pages.github.com">GitHub Pages</a> using Merlot</p>
        <span class="octocat"></span>
      </footer>

    </div>

    
  </body>
</html>
